In this repo I've taken cricket commentary data from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/raghuvansht/cricket-scorecard-and-commentary-dataset/data and tried to predict long commentary given short commentary.

In commentary.ipynb I've used a decoder only transformer architecture where there are 3 transformer blocks. The architecture is as follows - word embeddings -> positional encoding -> (layer norm -> self attention -> residual connection -> layer norm -> feed forward network) * 3 -> mlp. I've used byte pair encoding for tokenization but for positional encoding, self attention, ffn, and layern norm, I've written the code myself from scratch. The training was done using mini batch SGD and I achieved a cross entropy loss of around 4.3 (picking tokens at random would give a loss of 8.5 so this is still better than predictor a token at random). The generated commentary output doesn't make much cricketing sense but it looks like a decently structured english sentence.

In commentary_imporved.ipynb I've used the same architecture with a few tweaks. I changed the embedding dimension from 200 to 512 and increased the number of blocks from 3 to 6. I also used torch.nn.Module for each class and torch.nn.Linear instead of matrices in self attention and feed forward network classes. Apart from this I added residual dropout after each layer. Training in this was done using AdamW optimizer and I achieved a cross entropy loss of around 2.4 which is much better than the previous model. (I've taken help from chatgpt to make the changes from the previous notebook to this one.) The generated commentary is much better as well - it generates properly structured english sentences and they tend to make cricketing sense as well. For no run, 1 run, 2 runs, and FOUR runs, the generated sentences are quite good but for 3 runs, SIX runs, OUT, and 5 wides, the senteces don't seem to be making much cricketing sense. It might be that the generation is not good because 3 runs, SIX runs, OUT, etc. are not as common as the others in the training data which is expected (considering this data has test matches as well). I should probably try to use a sampling method to make all possible outcomes for a ball equally likely in the data.
